View the repository [here on GitHub](https://github.com/mcoppeta/junior-design-1337) or alternatively [this mirror repo](https://github.com/asantmier/junior-design-1337) if the first link doesn't work.

This is a group project I worked on as part of the Junior Design program at Georgia Tech. Over the course of two semesters, we first researched and planned, and then created a product for Sandia National Labs. Our project was a Python library for analyzing and modifying Exodus II database files created by Sandia's finite element analysis (FEA) processes. My role in the team was designing a large portion of the analysis tools, building documentation, and providing quality assurance.

Sandia analysts were using a minimal Python library wrapping a C library wrapping a FORTRAN library for their analysis which, as you might expect, was not very efficient. We designed a new Python library that interacted more directly with the files coupled with strong documentation and modularity to provide a more stable and usable foundation for analysts. Our library includes core functionality that analysts frequently use as specified by our client team, all of which was reverse engineered and created from the ground up in native Python. The functionality consists of two main parts, reading the files, and writing to them. I developed the majority of the reading code and accompanying analysis functions and my experience in reverse engineering the existing library allowed me to help my teammates on several portions of writing capability as well.

The most important part of this project to me was making sure the documentation was immaculate. Much of Sandia's internal documentation of the existing libraries was sparse and the code was cryptic, based on an apparent assumption that anyone reading it was an expert in over 400 pages of file format specification manuals. I spent a lot of time making sure our code was well formatted, contained good comments, and ensuring our documentation was extremely complete. Our final product would not contain all of the functionality our client team wanted due to a few features being too complex or impossible to develop without secret clearance, so it was important that whoever picked up our library to continue work on it could quickly get up to speed. I am proud of the final product my team completed and I am especially proud of the quality of code and documentation I created and I think it does a good job of showing the quality of my programming skills.